So I think we got all the things,
let's spin this up try to hit
the auth form try to sign in
see if it redirects us and
stuff like that and
let's see what happens.
So NPM run dev.
Get this thing going.
And you can see right off the bat, earlier
in the course when I tried to go to home,
it was just 404,
now it's redirecting the sign in.
So I can tell you right now the middleware
is working cuz otherwise we'd be looking
at 404 right now.
So that works.
You can also do a console log in
the middleware if you want and
it will log out here in the terminal.
Okay, so I'm gonna click on don't have
an account, and I'm gonna try to sign up.
So let's see what happens.
So I'm gonna say and
this is me, that's my email.
I wanna say it's just scott@gmail.com or
whatever that somebody's real email.
And I'm just gonna try to register here.
Let's see what happens.
This is gonna wait.
So we have an error,
let's see what that is.
And what was,
let's look at the network tab.
Wait, did we even hook these up yet?
I thought we did.
Let's see.
I'm gonna run that again in network tab.
Here we go.
So we got a 500.
And it says.
Yeah, it's just a random 500,
so here we go.
There we go.
That's what it's looking for.
I see where it is.
It's in API.
It's in fetcher.
It's in here.
This thing's messed up.
So let's see.
It might be.
The thing I told you guys
was super cool maybe,
[LAUGH] it's probably not that cool.
Is probably breaking it.
So let's check it out.
I think it was actually breaking
here when it was trying to do
res dot JSON because we might not be
sending anything back on the API.
So yeah, that's what it is.
So I mean, a quick way to do this
is just to like, just do this.
I think that's what the issue is.
Let's do that.
You can also just fix this
on the front end too, but
I think it's easier just to do it here.
Just trying to parse JSON when
there isn't any JSON parse.
So let's try that again.
Now I'm actually gonna sign
up with my cat's name,
Darryl, [LAUGH] he's a big boy.
So I wanna make an account here, and yeah,
it looks like it did it but
then it went to sign in.
So that tells me that the redirects,
either our middleware is
blocking a page somewhere,
cuz it redirected the sign.
But I imagine if I went to home.
It's still redirecting.
So that means the middleware's
probably not getting the right cookie.
So let's see.
Cuz it's redirected me now.
So let's log that JSON web
token on that try, to go home.
Yeah, so cookies and objects.
So we got to do a dot value.
So we need to do verify
JSON Web Token dot value
So once we do that we should
have a cookie already.
I should be able to go home
which we don't have a page for
it so it's gonna show up 404.
So it doesn't always work the first time,
but you gotta dig in there.
Okay, any questions on middleware?
>> You bringing together a lot
of different dependencies and
obviously you have a world
of experience in this.
But wherever we go if we were looking for
some other dependency to
solve some niche problem?
Say we build on to this data management,
filtering or
performing functions over on the server,
you're just digging into that?
Where do you recommend going in first for
some of those dependencies?
>> That's a good question.
So when I'm looking for
a new package or a new dependency,
my first thing to do is I always
just go on NPM first, and
I'll try to get lucky, right?
So if you're thinking of like,
you said data management, right?
So I'll look up next data.
Cuz most people try to get the cool names,
right?
So I'm like,
somebody's trying to get this name.
So I'll try to get lucky and
find the exact name of
the thing that I'm looking for.
Sometimes it doesn't work, but
if I do find something on here, let's say,
next data, I don't know what that does.
It's probably not what I'm looking for.
Then I'll go check to see
when it was published last.
I'll look at their GitHub.
This person doesn't even have a GitHub for
it so I probably will never use it.
So then I'll do that to see
if I can find something.
If I can't find that the next
thing I'll do is I'll just
literally just get on Google and
try to find some example code.
Like whether it's in a blog post,
whether it's in a repo
somewhere of someone doing the exact
thing that I'm looking for.
So for
instance you might be talking about,
like, how do you do
a nested query in Prisma?
Obviously Prisma has documentation for
it, but
I figured that it's better in my opinion
to find sometimes an example code cuz that
person who wrote the example code will
have all those different packages and
modules whereas like
a documentation wouldn't.
They're not gonna show you other
modules that they didn't write in their
documentation.
It was like,
this is how you do it manually.
So I try to find that example code.
The last thing I'll do is
I'll just go to GitHub and
I'll go to the source code of the thing
that I'm using and click on issues and
then type in the thing that I'm looking
for to see if someone reported an issue on
it and then see if someone helped them,
they resolve them.
Usually those three things typically
yield more than one result and
it's usually just about which
one of those I wanna take.
So that's kind of how I stay up to date.
Passively, I usually just log on to GitHub
and see like top trending projects in like
JavaScript or top trending projects
that mention the word Next.js or
whatever thing that I'm tracking.
And I usually find a lot of interesting
stuff that I don't need at the time, but
I'll remember it and
I'll come back to it later.
And I'm like, yeah, that was a thing I
read a month ago that I did not need, but
I kinda need it now.
So it usually does that.
And then once you do that, you'll have
your favorite packages that you just love
and you'll probably continue to use it
until the person stops supporting it, or
they forget to update
it to the next version.
And that's usually how it goes..
>> How do we know the middleware we
just built is working on the edge?
>> Well, right now the edge is a computer,
so is got trusted.
[LAUGH] But that's a great question.
When you deploy this you have to deploy it
to a platform that supports this runtime.
And at the top of my head, the only
that ones are aware of a middleware file
in a Next JS app and somehow converting
that to an edge runtime function or
Versailles the creators of Next JS and
Netlifly, their competitors.
Those are the only two that I'm aware
of personally that know what those
functions do.
But you could set this up yourself
on AWS or something like that.
So you just have to trust that creatives
of those platforms are running it there.
But if you really wanted to test it,
I mean, there's nothing stopping you from
looking at the latency of which,
how something came back.
I mean, you can set up a VPN and
go to a different location and
see what node it hits.
Check out the IP address to
see what CDN it came from.
You can try to throw some JavaScript
in there just to see that you'll
get an error.
Like B crypt,
there'll be crypto in there and
see that you'll get an error
if you try to run it.
So there's a lot of ways to verify but
locally, there is no edge,
it's just a simulated edge environment so
that's just running on your computer.